
This directory contains two main scripts: 1) allosmod_analysis.sh and 2) pseudo_correl.sh.  
First, allosmod_analysis.sh is a script that analyses a set of simulation trajectories.  The 
script should run on any linux/unix based machine.  To run, you must first specify the path 
of the analysis script directory (analysis_dir) in allosmod_analysis.sh.  Then make a file 
"list" that will contain the path(s) of the root simulation directory(s), which contains a 
set of simulation directories all pertaining to a single landscape (i.e., ~/pred_dE0.12rAS9 
that contains several simulation directories with identical input files).  Then type 
allosmod_analysis.sh at the prompt.

If sufficient sampling of the relevant conformational space has been attained (this should be 
checked manually by plotting the raw data), then you can calculate pseudo correlation.  Specify 
the path of the analysis script directory (analysis_dir) in pseudo_correl.sh.  Make a "list" 
file of all relevant root simulation directories.  Then type pseudo_correl.sh at the prompt.

OUTPUTS:

Each simulation directory will contain the following files:

energy.dat - contains the allosmod energy for each structure

p.dat - contains the Boltzmann weighted probability for each structure

velocity.dat - contains the translational velocity of the protein and the center of mass.  
	     This file is used to assess if trajectories may contain errors.

qioft_PDB_11sc.dat - contains a residue specific Q score referencing structure PDB.  Qi is a 
		   distance similarity metric in which a score of 1 implies identity to a 
		   reference structure and a score of 0 implies all contacts are different.  
		   For more detail refer to Weinkam et. al.  By default the score has an 
		   11 Angstrom distance cutoff.

qalloft_PDBsc.dat - contains a Q score of the whole structure referencing structure PDB.  This 
		  Q score is the average of all Qi scores in a given structure.

qiassc.dat - contains delta Qi.  Delta Qi is the Qi score of the second PDB file in the 
	   simulation input file "list" in reference to the first PDB file in the simulation
	   input file "list."  This file will only be made if there is more than one minima 
	   in the energy landscape.  Delta Qi is used to calculated Qi_diff.
	   
qidiffoftsc.dat - contains Qi_diff.  Qi_diff is a score comparing the trajectory to two 
		structures at once: the first and second PDB files in the simulation input file 
		"list."  A score of 1 implies identity to the first PDB file.  A score of -1 
		implies identity to the second PDB file.  This file will only be made if there 
		is more than one minima in the energy landscape.  For more detail refer to Weinkam et. al.


The allosmod_analysis.sh script will also output a check of all the simulation directories.  Simulation 
errors can cause some trajectories to fail, resulting in high energies, high translational velocities, 
and/or unfolding.  There is no strict rule for what constitutes a failure because systems can vary 
dramatically so use caution here.  By default, a Qall score below 0.5 (50% contacts) or a translational 
velocity above 0.0010 will give a warning message.


The pseudo_correl.sh script will output:

pjisn_iisp.out - an i (columns) by j (rows) matrix specifying the probability that a residue j is in state n 
	       if residue i is in state p.  State p implies that the residue has a Qi_diff > 0 and state n 
	       implies a residue has a Qi_diff < 0.  Likewise, there is a file called pjisn_iisn.out.

pjisn_iisn_o_pjisn_iisp.out - an i (columns) by j (rows) matrix specifying pseudo correlation. Pseudo 
			    correlation is the ratio of pjisn_iisn over pjisn_iisp.  For more details refer 
			    to the paper.  Likewise, there is a file called pjisp_iisp_o_pjisp_iisn.out.


The get_qi_pdist.sh script will output:

qidiffXXsc.dat - probability distributions of Qi_diff for each residue (first column is Qi_diff, second 
column is probability, third column is the number of points in the bin). A value greater than 1 implies that the 
structure in the vicinity of the residue is more similar to the first structure in the list file (input to 
simulations) than to the second structure in the list file.  This script requires java.


The get_prop_of_q.sh script will output:

propqXX.dat - rolling average of local Qi as a function of global Q (first column is Qall, second column is 
Qi, third column is RMSD of Qi, fourth column is the number of points in the bin).  The script can predict 
the relative folding stability of regions in the protein under the assumption that folding stability is 
proportional to the rate of local unfolding.  This script requires java.


REFERENCES:

P. Weinkam, J. Pons, A. Sali. (2012) "Structure-based model of allostery predicts coupling between distant sites." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A.
